feat(svelte): Add documentation for component tracking (#5470)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/javascript/guides/svelte/features/componenttracking.mdx

---
title: Track Svelte Components
---

> Sentry's Svelte SDK offers a feature to monitor the performance of your Svelte components: **Component Tracking**. By enabling this feature, you will get spans in your transactions showing the initialization and update cycles of your Svelte components. This feature allows you to get a drilled down view into how your components are behaving, to e.g. identify slow initializations or frequent updates which might have an impact on your app's performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sentry's Svelte SDK offers a feature to monitor the performance of your Svelte components: component tracking. Enabling this feature provides you with spans in your transactions that show the initialization and update cycles of your Svelte components. This allows you to get a drilled-down view into how your components are behaving so you can do things like identify slow initializations or frequent updates, which might have an impact on your app's performance.
```

## Usage

> To get started, simply add the Sentry `componentTrackingPreprocessor` to your `svelte.config.js` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started, add the Sentry `componentTrackingPreprocessor` to your `svelte.config.js` file:
```

```javascript {tabTitle: svelte.config.js}
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/svelte";

const config = {
  preprocess: [
    Sentry.componentTrackingPreprocessor({
      // Add the components you want to be tracked to this array.
      // Specificy `true` to track all components or `false` to disable
      // tracking entirely
      // (defaults to `true`)
      trackComponents: ["Navbar", "PrimaryButton", "LoginForm"],
      // To disable component initialization spans, set this to `false`.
      // (defaults to `true`)
      trackInit: true,
      // To disable component update spans, set this to `false`
      // (defaults to `true`)
      trackUpdates: false,
    }),
    // ...
  ],
  // ...
};

export default config;
```

> This preprocessor is called at application build time. It inserts a function call to a function in the Sentry SDK into the `<script>` tag of your components before it is compiled and bundled. The called function takes care of recording the spans by using the Svelte component's lifecycle hooks.

Reviewer: Before what is compiled and bundled? The app? There's already an "it" in this sentence for the preprocessor, so we want to be specific.

```suggestion
This preprocessor is called at application build time. It inserts a function call to a function in the Sentry SDK into the `<script>` tag of your components before your app is compiled and bundled. The called function takes care of recording the spans by using the Svelte component's lifecycle hooks.
```
